[Music]
imagine you're in a forest and come
across a bear or that you're stuck in a
building that's on fire would you know
what to do to survive life is full of
surprises and not all of them are
pleasant but there's always a way out
even in situations that seem hopeless
[Music]
number one how to escape from a car you
push on the door with all your strength
but it just won't open don't panic if
there's an emergency and you can't get
out try to break the glass but do it in
the right way
don't hit it in the center but on the
edges if you can remove the headrest
from the seat use it to break the glass
the headrests are different depending on
the car model so make sure you know how
to remove the ones in your car number
two unpredictable fire can a harmless
thing we use basically every day be the
reason for a fire this fact may surprise
you but if direct sunlight hits a
plastic bottle it can actually start a
fire this can happen because the water
bottle acts like a lens that focuses the
light coming through the window into one
hot spot that's why you should never
leave water bottles under direct
sunlight or in your car number three if
caught in a fire keep low to the ground
many experts have noticed that the
greatest threat doesn't come from the
fire itself but from carbon monoxide
fumes also known as smoke that's why
it's crucial to stay as close to the
floor as possible during the fire to
avoid breathing in poisonous smoke you
should stay in this position until you
can make your way out of the building or
someone comes to rescue you
number four address someone directly to
get help if you're in a place with a lot
of people around and suddenly need help
because you feel sick or are hurt you
should avoid the bystander effect it's
also known as diffusion of
responsibility which means that people
tend to hesitate to help if there are
others present so it's not effective to
just yell for help instead point out one
person from the crowd to get assistance
for example you in the red shirt please
help me get up
number five encountering a bear well of
course the best advice here is to avoid
bears in the wild call me Captain
Obvious but if such an encounter
actually happened you should keep in
mind that this animal runs very fast
however moving quickly around an object
like a car or a tree is the Bears
weakest skill so if you let it chase you
moving in circles
chances are it'll give up trying to
catch you thinking you're not worth its
energy actually bears rarely attack
people if it starts moving slowly in
your direction walk back slowly most
likely a bear will back off once it
realizes you're a human number six a
smell of fish or urine it's not because
your pet had an accident or you actually
have a fish tank then you should wash
out this smell can come from electric
wires melting which can lead to a fire
or even an explosion it's better to cut
off the electricity and check all the
outlets to make sure the wires haven't
burned through their insulation and
started to melt the plastic that's why
it's important to call an electrician to
examine the problem number seven rip
current these powerful narrow channels
of fast-moving water are dangerous if
you're accidentally caught in one you
need to remember that there's no point
in trying to fight it so don't try to
swim against it straight back to shore
or you'll just get exhausted instead
try to swim parallel to the shore until
you exit the current and only then swim
towards the shore number eight a fire
during cooking you finally have the time
to cook your favorite dish
but sometimes the vegetable oil you use
for frying
can catch fire on a gas stove if that
happens first you need to turn off the
gas
keep in mind that using water to
extinguish burning fat or oil will only
make things worse
water particles will immediately end up
at the bottom of the pan and begin to
evaporate which will make the flames
even stronger you must cut off the fire
supply of oxygen by putting something
over the pan to smother the flames 9
don't eat snow even if you're thirsty if
you ever get stuck in the woods in
winter and are desperate for some water
eating snow is the last thing you should
do being in a freezing environment and
at the same time putting something
completely frozen into your body can
quickly lead to hypothermia try to keep
your body warm by starting a fire to
melt the snow before you drink it the
heated water will warm you up from the
inside 10 hide in the tub in case of a
tornado if a tornado is approaching your
area obviously the best thing you can do
is to rush to the nearest shelter or
bunker or get in the basement but
sometimes there's just not enough time
for that if you're looking for a place
to hide inside your house choose the
bathtub it's the safest spot in every
home since the tub is well anchored to
the ground besides most bathrooms have
strong framing and the pipes help to
keep their structure together
don't forget to grab a big cushion if
you can't it'll protect you from the
debris that might fall and if the wind
is too strong hold on to the faucet 11
water on the beach is too far from the
shoreline there's nothing like soaking
in the Sun at the beach but even in such
a relaxing atmosphere
you should stay alert if you notice that
the water recedes quickly and
unexpectedly from the beach exposing the
ocean floor you should warn everyone
around and get away as fast as you can
because when the water line is
abnormally far from the shore this is a
sign of a tsunami 12 how to recognize a
poisonous snake of course it's best to
keep away from snakes altogether but
still it wouldn't hurt to know the signs
that help distinguish between venomous
and non-venomous members of the species
non-venomous snakes have bifurcated
scales on the abdominal side of the tail
while the tales of their venomous
counterparts are covered with non
bifurcated scales yeah but who's gonna
get close enough to pick up their tails
to look underneath anyway
snakes that are dangerous also have
round pupils while dangerous ones have
cat-like pupils and venomous species
usually have a distinct division between
the head and the neck while harmless
snakes don't don't forget though that
only an expert can really confirm
whether a snake is dangerous or not but
in most cases these distinctions are
true 13 walking on thin ice if you're
trapped on thin ice and there's no one
to help you start by lying down flat on
your stomach and spread out your arms
and legs if you have ice picks use them
as a grip to get back up to safe ground
if you don't have them then you'll have
to try to roll away in the same
direction you came from this will help
to spread out the weight of your body
evenly
number 14 if your hair stands on end
while you're at an elevation
so you're standing on a hill and
suddenly your hair starts naturally
rising in the air what's up with that
maybe it's just a bad hair day nope
this is a sign of the presence of
electricity in the air which often
precedes a lightning strike escape as
fast as you can and find some shelter
that's why when a thunderstorm is
forecasted it might be dangerous to
climb any pigs 15 don't inflate your
life jacket before getting out of the
plane in the case of an emergency water
landing inflating your life jacket
inside a rapidly submerging airplane
would be a big mistake you wouldn't be
able to move without help since you'd
float up to the cabin ceiling the safest
thing to do is to take a deep breath and
swim out of the airplane taking your
deflated lifejacket with you only when
you're out of the plane should you
finally pull the inflation cord 16
upbeat music behind the wheel wait who
doesn't listen to music well driving it
doesn't mean you should avoid music
altogether but don't choose upbeat loud
music that makes you want to dance
in 2013 Israeli researchers proved that
this kind of music makes your
concentration worse the same studies
show that listening to music you don't
like also negatively affects your
driving skills so make a playlist with
songs that you love but make sure
they're calm okay
which of these life-saving facts did you
know already
let me know down in the comments if you
learned something new today
then give this video a like and share it
with a friend but hey don't go pick up a
snake just yet
we have over 2,000 cool videos for you
to check out all you must do is pick the
left or right one click on it and enjoy
stay on the bright side of life